
-----
Levels

In one game session, we challenge you to learn a randomly generated
vocabulary of shape-syllable pairs. The size of the vocabulary depends
on the difficulty level of the game session. You can choose among
four levels:

- novice: 4 pairs (tutorial level with tool tips)
- mage: 8 pairs
- archmage: 16 pairs
- oracle: 32 pairs


-----
Stages

To complete a level, you must pass a sequence of stages that teach
shape-syllable pairs and test your recall of the pairs.

A stage displays a spell consisting of three syllables, each of which
corresponds to a shape. The syllables are highlighted one after the
other and you have to tap the matching shape in the action area. This
is easy to do when the correct shape is shown next to the syllable.

When the shape is hidden, you must recall the correct shape from an
earlier stage when it was shown. The stages progress in such a way that
a shape-syllable pair is shown twice before the shape is hidden.

A twenty-second timer runs during each stage. If you don't complete the
required actions within that time, you fail the stage.


-----
Penalties

You start out with three stars. Each failed stage costs you a star. After
three penalties, you can continue playing the level and you may fail as
many stages as you like. However, if you want to complete the level with
stars, you must bail out of the level and start a new one.

Another consequence of failing a stage is that you are sent back two
stages. In the stage sequence A, B, C, if you fail stage C, you are
sent back to stage A. This has a cost because you have to do more work
to complete the level, but it is also a benefit because repeating the
last two stages reinforces your memory of the shapes they introduce.


-----
Stage progression

novice:
  A B C
  a B C
  A b   D
    b c D
  a b   d
  a   c d
    b c d
  a b c


-----
Shapes

lizard, bird, mouse
frog, cat, bull
heart, hand, foot
tree, rose, grapes


-----
Color palettes

To accommodate color-blindness and taste differences, we allow the player
to choose a palette of five colors.


-----
Start game

- the player selects a level
- the syllables are shuffled
- the shapes are shuffled
- the first N syllable-shape pairs are selected (N is determined by the level)


